We were looking at ways of
doing objective balance test.
And so, how is this balance
testing currently done now?
It's very subjective and
it's non-repeatable,
the same test, and
there is a lot inter-rater variability.
That is, the tests are you sit down and
stand up five times,
and how quickly you're able to
do that without your hands.
You walk for three minutes back and forth.
And the other famous
test is one foot stand.
You stand on one foot and
if you're not able to maintain balance,
you get little bit more wobbly.
You do the same thing
with your eyes closed,
then it becomes lot more difficult
to maintain your balance.
And people grade this on
a scale of one to five, and
then they add these multiple scores.
So the real gold standard for
balance assessment is gait labs,
where people are put inside a lab.
These are hundreds of
thousand dollar costing labs,
with lots of sensors everywhere, and it's
very expensive and very time consuming.
So most of the times, people don't
prescribe patients for this test.
What if you had a camera that is
actually observing the clinician and
the patient as they go through
these subjective tests,
and the camera is able to
come up with an objective
metric of how you are able
to maintain balance?
We call this off body sensor instead,
of instrumenting
the patient with lights and
LEDs and accelerometers,
like done in gait labs.
So, we tried this and the video on
the left side shows a volunteer,
in this case it's me,
doing one foot stand with my eyes closed,
and the pictures on the right-hand side,
each one corresponds to
a 40 millisecond duration.
This was a 25 frames per second
video that is extracted from
the output of the DVS camera.
You can see the middle-top row, there is a
lot of wobbliness because there's lots of
brightness, and
the last one, bottom-right,
it's much lighter because I'm able to
maintain postural balance much better.
And we recently published
this work in IEEE EMBC, and
we were quite pleased with
the results that we published.
These are ten healthy volunteers, mostly
students and some of the professors.
And this is left foot up.
The blue bars are with eyes open.
And, when you close the eyes, you can see
the y axis is the total visual activity.
We call it total variance.
It shoots up dramatically because
you're not able to maintain balance.
And the ordering as 1PS10
is by self recorded
amount of physical activity
they get in a week.
S1 at ten hours or
more of physical activity and S10 had not.
The same pattern happens for
the right foot also.
But you can clearly see
that there is lot more
resolution between when they're able to
maintain balance and when they're not.
The orange bar is with the one foot up,
eyes closed, but this time,
they're not holding the chair,
they're just putting a finger there.
That provides feedback.
You know how long your hand is and
it just gives you a context of
where you're in the 3D space, and
dramatically, you're able to
maintain very good balance.
So, this is the point
I was trying to make.
You give somebody a walking stick or
a walker, their risk for
falls drops down dramatically.
The other thing that I wanted to
point out here was if you look at S2
compared to the left foot and
right foot, S2 happens to be me and
I have miniscule scars in my knees
from tennis and so on and so forth.
And it was able to pick up right of it,
that one foot was weaker than the other.
So we think there is a lot of
promise with this off body sensor
that is essentially
working the background.
And along with the subjective rating
that the clinicians come up with,
we have an objective
metric to add to that.
And this is the spectrum of the raw data
that we extract from the visual sensor,
along with a balance board
that has four accelerometers.
And it's supposed to correlate with
the gold standard of a force plate.
And you can see that under 2 Hertz, there
is very, very nice correlation between
the signals seen by the DVS camera and
the balance board.
In fact, we reported 99% Pierson
correlation between the gold standard and
what we are able to do with this camera.
So, essentially what
I'm trying to convey is,
all the tools that we double up for,
wireless communication that
became into the cellphone,
the smartphone, the Internet of Things,
the audio content,
we can actually leverage them for
a lot of new sensing modalities.
It's not just a person to
person communication anymore,
like voice, or video, or audio.
It is that, and
machine to human communication,
human to machine, and
even machine to machine.
And as part of this, you will see a lot
more new sensing modalities that come up.
So if we really understand how we
are able to get that huge savings
in compressing different types of
microphone signals, audio signals,
video signals, we can very easily
apply them for new sensing modalities.
And I compiled some reading material for
this particular module for you.
In this particular one.
So I hope you will take
advantage of all of this,
and the previous courses get
inspired by course one, and
do a great job in your capstone.
Thank you very much for your time.